the Lord came to me again son of man say
to the Prince of Tyre thus says the Lord
God because your heart is lifted up and
you say I am a God I sit in the seat of
gods in the midst of the Seas yet you
are a man and not a God though you set
your heart as the heart of a God behold
you are wiser than Daniel there is no
secret that can be hidden from you with
your wisdom and your understanding you
have gained riches for yourself and
gathered gold and silver into your
Treasuries by your great wisdom in trade
you have increased your riches and your
heart has lifted up because of your
riches therefore thus says the Lord God
because you have set your heart as the
heart of a God behold therefore I will
bring strangers against you the most
terrible of the nations and they shall
draw their swords against the beauty of
your wisdom and defile your splendor
they shall throw you down into the pit
and you shall die the death of the slain
in the midst of the Seas will you still
say before him who slays you I am a god
but you shall be a man and not a God in
the hand of him who slays you you shall
die the death of the uncircumcised by
the hand of aliens for I have spoken
moreover the word of the Lord came to me
saying son of man take up a lamentation
for the king of Tyre and say to him thus
says the Lord God you were the seal of
perfection full of wisdom and perfect in
beauty you were in Eden the garden of
God every precious stone was your
covering the sardius topaz and diamund
Beryl onyx and jasper sapphire turquoise
and emerald with gold the workmanship of
your timbrels and pipes was prepared for
you on the day you were created
you were the anointed cherub who covers
I established you you were on the holy
mountain of God you walked back and
forth in the midst of fiery stones you
were perfect in your ways from the day
you were created till iniquity was found
in you by the abundance of your trading
you became filled with violence within
and you sinned therefore I cast you as a
profane thing out of the mountain of God
and I destroyed you O covering cherub
from the midst of the fiery stones your
heart was lifted up because of your
beauty you corrupted your wisdom for the
sake of your splendor I cast you to the
ground
I laid you before Kings that they might
gaze at you you defiled your sanctuaries
by the multitude of your iniquities by
the iniquity of your trading therefore I
brought fire from your midst it devoured
you
and I turned you to ashes upon the earth
in the sight of all who saw you all who
knew you among the peoples are
astonished at you you have become a
horror and shall be known more forever
then the word of the Lord came to me
saying son of man set your face towards
Sidon and prophesy against her and say
thus says the Lord God behold I am
against you O Sidon I will be glorified
in your midst and they shall know that I
am the Lord when I execute judgments in
her and am hallowed in her for I will
send pestilence upon her and blood in
her streets the wounded shall be judged
in her midst by the sword against her on
every side then they shall know that I
am the Lord and there shall no longer be
a pricking Brier or a painful thorn for
the house of Israel from among all who
are around them who despised them then
they shall know that I am the Lord God
thus says the Lord God when I have
gathered the house of Israel from the
peoples among whom they are scattered
and AM hallowed in them in the sight of
the Gentiles then they will dwell in
their own land which I gave to my
servant Jacob and they will dwell safely
there build houses and plant vineyards
yes they will dwell securely when I
execute judgments on all those around
them who despise them then they shall
know that I
I belonged there God